the md80 mcdonnell-douglas newest twin
jet airliner underwent a rigorous flight
test program prior to its certification
by the FAA these tests took the aircraft
well beyond maneuvers encountered in
normal Revenue Service what follows are
some of the highlights of those
certification tests and their results
before its first flight the md80 was
subjected to structural proof load tests
hydraulic jacks were used to apply loads
on the structure as the load increased
to larger magnitudes the wing deflected
eventually reaching a value in excess of
5 feet at the wing tip these were very
accurately controlled loads that
gradually increased in intensity to 101
percent of design limit
at the same time the slats and flaps
were extended to confirm normal
operation under load during these tests
the md80 structure achieved all design
objectives proceeding to the flight test
series here the md80 is first seen
executing a normal takeoff now a group
of stall tests are performed the first
being in the clean configuration that is
with the flaps slats and landing gear
retracted the md80 attains a steep pitch
attitude as the aircraft stalls it
exhibits excellent characteristics
through its stall and eventual recovery
the next test exhibited is the landing
configuration stall with the flaps and
landing gear extended again the md80
shows excellent characteristics
approaching the stall
during the stall and through recovery
we now have a minimum control speed test
with the condition of engine failure at
decision speed the pilot applies a
correction in directional control with
only a minor deviation of the airplane
the take-off continues successfully with
operation on a single engine this is a V
mu test accomplished to demonstrate
minimum unstick speed capability with a
failed engine the md80 is rotated down
on the tail skid after the thrust is set
to simulate an engine out condition the
aircraft once again exhibits excellent
characteristics and flies off on
single-engine thrust this is another V
mu or minimum unstick speed test except
this time both engines are operating at
normal thrust as expected the aircraft
climbs more smartly under two engine
thrust is compared to the single engine
thrust seen in the previous test
this next test involves a rejected
takeoff occurring at maximum takeoff
weight at maximum brake energy full
brakes are applied at approximately 185
knots and maintained to a full stop the
md80 exhibits good directional control
and excellent anti-skid braking the
aircraft is brought to a full stop with
only minor smoking the tires and no
brake fire present
the md80 now undergoes a test landing
under wet runway conditions the pilot
purposely makes a firm landing with no
reverse thrust applied only anti-skid
braking was used to bring the aircraft
to a stop
no hydroplaning occurs and the aircraft
exhibits excellent stopping capability
on this very wet runway
this performance test landing is
accomplished at maximum landing weight
and the md80 is purposely landed at a
very high sink rate with maximum braking
applied immediately after touchdown this
maximum braking is held until the
aircraft comes to a full stop good
characteristics are again demonstrated
this test illustrates a landing
situation that simulates the generally
remote possibility of a total hydraulic
failure with no flaps or slats extended
approach speed is 185 knots
touchdown occurs at about 175 knots
thrust reversers are applied using the
accumulators anti-skid braking is also
achieved through the accumulators good
directional control is maintained and
the aircraft demonstrates good stopping
capability no problems occurred despite
these very adverse landing conditions
flight tests were also accomplished with
this production version of the md80 a
Swissair jetliner the leadoff customer
for the md80 one of the required FAA
tests involved demonstrating an
inadvertent deployment of the thrust
reverser during flight and the inability
to stow it the MTA t maintains good
control and subsequently a successful
and very uneventful landing is made with
one reverser fully deployed
this md80 takeoff test is being made
through a pit filled with nearly 1 inch
of water to demonstrate the md80
capability under extreme wet runway
conditions no water was ingested into
the engines the engines are protected by
the nose gear spray deflector which very
effectively directs the water outboard
the tests you've just seen are only a
few of the many that were made on the
md80 during its flight test
certification program these tests were
very extensive and stringent and
verified the essential integrity of this
outstanding new aircraft the md80 is now
in service with airlines around the
world it is achieving an outstanding
record is the leading twin jet of the
1980s and beyond
Oh